"i started it in march after a long string of unsuccessful medications: stelara, remicade, xeljanz, entyvio, and omvoh. plus loads of prednisone. this is my last option pretty much.

i'm not kidding that within 3 days i went from 15 bloody bms to 2 with no blood. now i'm down to 1 normal per day and feel like my old self. 

no side effects beyond acne when i started at 45mg. that went away when i dropped to 30mg and tbh it was just a few scattered zits. they were more xystic painful though, just not a lot. gave me an excuse to buy more skincare and makeup lol."
"reduced symptoms immediately after starting. i’m a month in and still experiencing some symptoms, but it’s all much more manageable than before. 

i’ve had acne along my hairline, shoulders and upper back. it all seems to be clearing up now. besides that, i’ve struck a routine where i experience relentless flatulence starting around 5am. only a few bms per day (i have a high metabolism, 3 bms would be normal for me), but the farting is a constant. suppose i’m thankful i can fart fearlessly?"
"upa is so good, back to myself within weeks, i even managed 2 months steroid free! unfortunately my disease was too advance and it crept back up on me.

only side effect i noticed was high bp, which was counteracted with ramipril.

really hope it works for you 🙏"
"jak-ne (jak inhibitor related acne) as already mentioned.  typically cystic and painful.  muscle cramping.  those were worth it because it worked so well and so fast on my uc.  it really felt like full remission really quickly.

  
the bad news was my liver wasn't having it.  i had very elevated liver enzymes and developed fatty liver.  i was taken off it and after 8-10 weeks, went back to being pretty normal, liver wise."
i used to take rinvoq for 9 weeks and i failed. i got bad ass acne (hurts like hell) and lost a lotttt of hair! but i hope it helps you!
this has eased my mind :) i hope this is my wonder drug after all then as like you, i've failed everything else :/ glad to know the acne isn't that bad either. i did get a bit of acne due to the vedo which sounds the same as you've just described so i'm at ease now!
similar thing happened to me with vedolizumab (entyvio) 12 weeks later my liver still isn't right
can you tell me about your muscle cramps?  my son started rinvoq a few days ago and it has already helped his uc but he is complaining of muscle cramps in his leg.  reading about blood clots has me paranoid.  thanks!
"sure! so let me first put your mind at ease, it wasn't clot related. rinvoq actually has a lower incidence of clotting than xeljans, although it's still not zero. i'd really only be worried about it if you have a family history of clotting problems.

my cramping was mostly in my neck and back. it got progressively worse as i was on the drug and it felt like the worst cramping. like i was always super stressed and dehydrated. i also had deep, cystic acne on my face, head, chest and shoulders. it was deep, painful, and never really got a head on it. after a lot of tests including an ultrasound and a liver biopsy (0/10, do not recommend), it was determined those symptoms along with highly elevated liver enzymes were being caused my rinvoq. i couldn't metabolize the drug fully and the result was waste products were ending up in muscles and skin, hence the acne and cramping. i switched to zeposia and all symptoms went away in 6-8 weeks. 

all that said: don't panic. your boy probably just had a cramp from not drinking enough water. but definitely keep an eye open. make sure he gets a blood panel every six months to make sure he's doing well. if the cramping gets more consistent or you notice an uptick in acne, get on the gastro's calendar. it's not cause for alarm or time to freak out, it's just a sign that rinvoq isn't working right and it's time to look at other options. there are lots of drugs out there now for uc and you just need to find the one that's right for you."
thank you for sharing your experience!
"for me rinvoq has been amazing. just hit a month on it and saw improvement within the first week. pain went away within a couple days, bowel movements normalized within about a week, and hunger and energy came back around then as well. honestly it's hard to over state how awesome it has been for me.

the most exciting thing about it, at least for me, is it's very effective for people like me who have failed all the biologics."
been on rinvoq for 2 weeks now. i been in a really bad flare for a year. constant stomach pain a diarrhea all day, every day, for 365 days…. rinvoq has literally changed my life. just 2 or 3 days after starting most of my symptoms are gone. in the mornings i still have some pain and diarrhea but i can finally leave my house a be a normal controbuting member of society. best of luck op!
"i’ve been on rinvoq since august.
so c-diff basically destroyed my colon, took some study meds but they didn’t work and then started with rinvoq.
after a few days i already noticed some improvements. doctor said it fast working and you could see results after 2 weeks.
had a sigmoidoscopy last week at 8 weeks and my colon had improved, but inflammation is still very present.

a bunch of meds didn’t work for me, but this one seems to work somewhat. 
side effects i’m having is some light acne (doctor mentioned this) and i had to start blood thinners because my platelets became to high due to the meds."
i was on rinvoq. i started at 45mg. it stopped my period and gave me horrible scalp acne. when they lowered the dose to 30mg, my period came back but very light.
i was in a flare for 2 years and failed to respond to 6mp, remicade and entyvio even at elevated doses. started rivoq about 2-3 months ago now i'm back down to 80 calprotectin . some symptoms remain like a bit of urgency and loose moments but overall sooo much better. im hoping these will go away in time \^
worked really well for me for about two months and now not so well, but i have an ileostomy with pyoderma and perianal crohn’s so not a normal case. no issues with side effects. really hope it works for you!
"i started rinvoq on 9/11. i noticed improvements after 8 days. prior to that i was going to the bathroom 3 or 4 times a day sometimes more with fierce urgency and it was all liquid.  that went on for at least 3 months or longer. so at day 8 i was doing so much better and thankful.

i'm on 45mg, i'll be on this dose until about 12/4 and then stepping down to a lower dose. 

i previously had success with remicade and humira. 

so far so good, thankfully!"
it’s working well for me so far and i’ve failed humira and stelara. as long as things keep going the way they are, i’m happy.
"**welcome to r/crohnsdisease!**

* [join our discord](https://discord.gg/vwghb7qdww) if you're looking for people to chat with...

* [have you checked out our rules?](https://www.reddit.com/r/crohnsdisease/wiki/rules)

* [are you asking a frequently asked question?](https://www.reddit.com/r/crohnsdisease/wiki/ibd_faq)

* please remember we are not doctors and any medical advice is a suggestion.  if the event of an emergency, please contact your doctor, hospital, or emergency services. 

thanks and we hope you make friends here.


*i am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/crohnsdisease) if you have any questions or concerns.*"
this makes me really hopeful, thank you so much for sharing!
that’s so brilliant to read! i’ve failed so many biologicals so i was really nervous about this one.
so sorry to hear about your awful flare, very happy to hear rinvoq has been working for you!! thank you so much!
thank you for sharing your experience!
thanks for sharing, i hope the side effects will subside for you
thank you for sharing and happy to hear you are feeling much better!
sorry to hear about your complicated case, thank you for sharing and for your well-wishes!
happy to hear it's working for you! thanks for sharing 💜
happy to hear, thanks for sharing!
jak inhibitors are a step in the right direction, especially the more targeted ones. the challenge is that their entire profile suppresses the immune system and, therefore, presents the possibility of the development of malignancies and other things. again, the science is marching toward better treatment options and we should be happy about that. however, if the black box warning lists cancer as a possible side effect, i'm happy to keep my vitiligo. some risk? sign me up. major risks? nah i'm good.
yeah im not sure oral jak inhibitors will ever be a real solution, happy to stick with topicals though
sus
"i have been on rinvoq upadacitinib (45mg) for 10 months now after mtx, humira, simponi, etanercept and jyseleca (filgotinib) didn't work properly or only for short time.

from what i've heard, rituximab is more intense as it wipes out your b-cells (please correct if wrong) so you will be very prone to infections. upadacitinib is more on the same infection risk level as the other biologics.

rinvoq has been really great, only downside is weight gain and acne but being almost pain-free is a good trade-off."
"i'm going into biologic #3, and unfortunately it's more common than you'd think. but it's not as scary, either!

when the first one failed it really threw me for a loop. i had already ""failed"" mtx. when enbrel stopped working i thought i was doomed. i brought this up at my appt, and my rheumy wrote out a chart with all the possibilities. there are so many bios on the market. according to [the arthritis foundation ](https://www.arthritis.org/drug-guide/biologics/biologics), there are 5 types: ""tumor necrosis factor-α (tnf) inhibitors, b-cell inhibitors, interleukin inhibitors, selective co-stimulation modulators, and monoclonal antibodies"". each category has different options, too! 

plus, treatment plans are all about the combos. in my last appt, my new rheumy told me that developing an effective treatment plan is nothing but trial and error. that's very disconcerting, but imagine having ra 25 years ago when there weren't any biologics! 

don't worry too much; mental/emotional stress can make you flare-y. as difficult as things are atm, you're moving forward to find what works 🍀"
my mother started taking upadacitinib now. she started with mtx got bad lung infection then tried sulfasalazine with prednisolone (did not work at all), then one more treatment i forgot about. now she is taking upadacitinib for one month. she started feeling better after 1 week but she is taking prednisolone with it.
thank you all for the replies 🥰 i decided to go for updacitinib for now 🧚🏼‍♀️
"i’m on filgotinib (jyseleca) which, similarly to rinvoq is a selective jak inhibitor. it was also the first med in many years that finally put me in remission.
i’ve not had any infections or otherwise since i started in october, so can’t relate there. with that said, you may want to speak with your doctor about your illnesses and see if there is something to be done. likely little to do except stop the med though. if that’s the case you’ll have to determine whether the possible return to flaring is worth the infections. to further muddy this choice is that you have likely been on most treatments already without success. i’m guessing you’ve been on the various types of biologics and now a jak inhibitor. how about s1p antagonists like ozanimod or estramod? 

 if no med works, and you don’t want to deal with the infections then perhaps look into surgery? 

only you can determine what’s right for you. 

also just a short note, rinvoq is not a biologic. biologics are produced from living organisms, are liquid so taken by infusion or injection and the drug name with end in -mab. i mention this because it might avoid some confusion when discussing with your gi."
"what were those 4 infections? and how old are you? 
